[Music]
lots of people are worrying about
coronavirus and we see a lot of people
with masks can I only get sick and I
think do I really need to go out most
people if you catch coronavirus it'll be
mild but for some coronavirus could be
really serious these are mostly older
people and people with underlying health
conditions things like asthma diabetes
and heart disease good news is you can
protect yourself and the NHS says you
should do these things even if you're
not likely to be seriously affected by
coronavirus you may pass it on to
someone who could be number one wash
your hands more the more you wash your
hands the less likely you are to spread
the virus to other people so if you've
been out in a public place on a bus or a
train wash your hands as soon as you can
afterwards and properly wash your hands
so that takes about 20 seconds to get
them really clean focusing on all parts
of your hand not just your palm backs of
hands around the nails in between the
fingers wrists and your thumb and use
soap and water and when you're done turn
the tap off using a tissue and put it in
the bin antibacterial gels do work but
soap and water is best number two avoid
touching your eyes nose and mouth
because that's the way the virus could
get into your body you can still touch
your face but only if you've washed your
hands before number three catching your
coughs and sneezes experts think corona
virus is spread by droplets that come
out of your nose and mouth so when you
sneeze or cough catch them with
disposable tissues then binet and wash
your hands
disposable tissues are better than
handkerchief so that you carry around
with you all the time if you don't have
a tissue sneeze or cough into the crook
of your elbow that way the germs are
away from your hands and you're less
likely to pass them on unless you greet
people using your elbow don't touch
things with your hands if you don't have
to the less you touch things like
surfaces handrails lift buttons and less
likely you are to catch the virus or
indeed spread it on number 4 stay away
from people who are ill if people are
unwell don't get too close to them the
closer you get the more likely you are
to catch something apart
that you should go about your life as
normal that means you should go to work
go to school and see your friends unless
you've been told not to by your doctor
or the NHS one-one-one coronavirus
service when it comes to traveling check
with the Foreign Office before you plan
to go now it's important to say that
there's no evidence that you can catch
corona virus from letters parcels or
food and these things won't work when it
comes to treating corona virus UV light
antibiotics garlic and saline solution
as for masks they're important when
people are in very close contact with
patients but there's very little
evidence that masks are helpful in
everyday life if you've been coughing or
you have a high temperature or you're
short of breath you may have the
symptoms of corona virus but you don't
necessarily have corona virus but if you
think you may do don't go anywhere
especially not the hospital pharmacy or
doctors instead phone your doctor or use
the online NHS one-one-one coronavirus
service and there'll be the ones who can
tell you what you should do next